# simulate-and-recover

For this project, I used the EZ diffusion model to predict obtained parameters, before simulating data and recovering the actual parameters for comparison. The EZ diffusion model is a simplified version of the Drift Diffusion Method that would allow for estimated parameters to be calculated directly from observed summary statistics and data. The goal of simulating and recovering the parameters is to be able to claim that data is truly generated by the EZ diffusion model. 
\
As required by the assignment, the EZDiffusionModel I wrote uses three parameters: a boundary separation alpha between .5 and 2.0, a drift rate v between between .5 and 2.0 and a nondecision time t between 0.1 and 0.5. I have these randomized before my iterations and in each of my tests that require as such. For simulation, different sample sizes were used: N=10, 40, and 1000. Each sample size was run for 1000 iterations. Forward EZ equations were used to generate predicted parameters. Distributions were used to find the observed values following simulation of iterations. Inverse EZ equations were then used to recover parameters before bias and squared error are evaluated.
\
I think my model is pretty successful in its ability to predict and recover parameters. Biases were always close to 0, but not equal to it due to noise. The behavior of squared error decreasing as N increases was followed by the model. My unit tests were pretty robust. I tested for input errors, the situation where no noise exist, and the two guidelines you provided: squared error reduces as N increases and bias averages out to be close to 0. All my tests pass, though it must be noted that rarely the test for bias of the sample N=10 will fail, which does make sense. Sometimes bias for N=10 will reach one decimal place. Such a small sample size would have more variability and noise, which is why most statistic tests often require you to have a sample size of at least 30 or something. Very rarely also, it is possible that a smaller sample size does result in a smaller squared error than larger sample sizes. I have seen this occur most often with sample sizes of 10 and 40, which does make sense due to their difference compared to 1000, and also variability due to being small.
\
In conclusion, the EZ diffusion model was able to successfully estimate parameters with reasonable accuracy. Through simulating distributions and recovering parameters, my results confirm that increasing sample size improves parameter recovery through reducing bias and squared error. However, it should be noted that some variations can occur in squared error across trials where smaller sample sizes can indeed have smaller squared error, but the overall situation is robust enough. These findings can lead us to claim that the EZ diffusion model does truly generate data and it performs better the larger the sample size. Even smaller sample sizes have biases that are pretty small, which means that estimates are close to the observed parameters.

